Program.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: "Program"
description: ""
group: navigation
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Get the official all-in-one workshop proceedings from the [LREC 2016 website](http://www.lrec-conf.org/proceedings/lrec2016/workshops/LREC2016Workshop-INTEROP_Proceedings.pdf). One-submission-per-file and BibTeX files linked below.

### Opening Session

09.00 -- 09.10
: Introduction

09.10 -- 10.00
: <img style="width: 15%; float: right; margin-left: 1em;" src="assets/fotoAle2.jpg"/>

<div style="width: 83%">
<b>Interoperability - Can a model driven approach help to overcome organizational constraints?</b><br/>Alessandro di Bari

<p><br/>Alessandro Di Bari is an IBM Executive/Senior Certified application architect.
He developed great experience in the application development field from both development process and application architecture point of view.
Starting from a deep involvement with modeling languages, he achieved significant results in the Model Driven Development (MDD) space, developing Domain Specific Languages for industries such as insurance. 
Since 2011, he works in the NLP/cognitive field, successfully applies his MDD skills in this field and also published several papers on this topic.
Since 2014, he works for the IBM Watson Cognitive Healthcare in the T.J. Watson research center in New York, USA.</p>
</div>

### Lightning talks part I

*5 minutes per talk, slides optional*

10.00 -- 10.30

: **Aggregating Research Papers from Publishers’ Systems to Support Text and Data Mining: Deliberate Lack of Interoperability or Not?**<br/> Petr Knoth and Nancy Pontika<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-1.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-1.bib)

: **Alveo: making data accessible through a unified interface – a pipe-dream?**<br/>Dominique Estival<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-2.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-2.bib)

: **The Language Application Grid**<br/>Nancy Ide, Keith Suderman, James Pustejovsky, Marc Verhagen, Christopher Cieri and Eric Nyberg<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-3.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-3.bib)

: **Interoperability of corpus processing work-flow engines: the case of AlvisNLP/ML in OpenMinTeD**<br/>Mouhamadou Ba and Robert Bossy<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-4.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-4.bib)

: **Integration of UIMA Text Mining Components into an Event-based Asynchronous Microservice Architecture**<br/>Sven Hodapp, Sumit Madan, Juliane Fluck and Marc Zimmermann<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-5.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-5.bib)

: **Interoperability = f(community, division of labour)**<br/>Richard Eckart de Castilho<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-6.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-6.bib)

10.30 -- 11.00
: Coffee break

### Lightning talks part II

*5 minutes per talk, slides optional*

11.00 -- 11.45

: **Linked Data and Text Mining as an Enabler for Reproducible Research**<br/>John P. McCrae, Georgeta Bordea and Paul Buitelaar<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-7.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-7.bib)

: **Tackling Resource Interoperability: Principles, Strategies and Models**<br/>Wim Peters<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-8.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-8.bib)

: **The DDINCBI Corpus — Towards a Larger Resource for Drug-Drug Interactions in PubMed**<br/>Lana Yeganova, Sun Kim, Grigory Balasanov, Kristin Bennett, Haibin Liu and W. John Wilbur<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-9.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-9.bib)

: **Multilingual Event Detection using the NewsReader pipelines**<br/>Rodrigo Agerri, Itziar Aldabe, Egoitz Laparra, German Rigau, Antske Fokkens, Paul Huijgen, Marieke van Erp, Ruben Izquierdo Bevia, Piek Vossen, Anne-Lyse Minard and Bernardo Magnini<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-10.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-10.bib)

: **Emotion Detection using Online Machine Learning Method and TLBO on Mixed Script**<br/>Shashank Sharma, PYKL Srinivas and Rakesh Balabantaray<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-11.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-11.bib)

: **Text mining for notability computation**<br/>Gil Francopoulo, Joseph Mariani and Patrick Paroubek<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-12.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-12.bib)

: **Why We Need a Text and Data Mining Exception (but it is not enough)**<br/>Thomas Margoni and Giulia Dore<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-13.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-13.bib)

: **Legal Interoperability Issues in the Framework of the OpenMinTeD Project: a Methodological Overview**<br/>Penny Labropoulou, Stelios Piperidis and Thomas Margoni<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-14.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-14.bib)

: **eInfrastructures: crossing boundaries, discovering common work, achieving common goals**<br/>Hege van Dijke and Stelios Piperidis

### Discussion rounds I

11.45 -- 12.00
: Constitution of breakout groups

12.00 -- 13.00
: Breakout groups -- suggested topics<br/>{% include discussiontopics.md %}

13.00 -- 14.00
: Lunch break

### Discussion rounds II

14.00 -- 16.00
: Breakout groups -- continued

16.00 -- 16.30
: Coffee break

### Closing session

16.30 -- 18.00
: Presentation of the breakout groups results<br/>Plenary discussion

18.00
: End of workshop

### eInfrastructures: crossing boundaries, discovering common work, achieving common goals

Embedded in the INTEROP 2016 workshop, the *eInfrastructures* workshop is a sub-event realized as one of breakout groups of the main workshop.

*Moderators: Stelios Piperidis (Athena Research Centre), Hege van Dijke (LIBER Europe)*

The quantity and variety of digital research data of all types, the increasing number of solutions for mining such data to discover new knowledge, the variety of requirements of users of such data min-ing tools and services pose new challenges to the numerous infrastructural initiatives. When it comes to language data and processing, we experience multiple efforts towards generic or domain specific platforms for data aggregation and delivery, tools and services discovery, workflows or-chestration and execution. Common questions in these efforts consist in interoperability at different levels: metadata of language resources and annotations, data representations and vocabularies, ser-vices across platforms and frameworks, cloud computing infrastructures, access restrictions and permissions for certain operations. In this session, we bring together strategic players in order to discuss parallel efforts being undertaken and opportunities for long-term harmonisation and stra-tegic collaboration among existing (and future) e-Infrastructures in Europe, and the world at large, with a focus on, inter alia:

- What are the necessary strategies to enable crossing the boundaries of platforms, scientific domains, languages, national legislations?
- What can we learn from similar attempts so far?
- What can the research community do to promote these goals?
- What sort of alliances and policies are necessary to support overcoming the current barriers?


{% comment %}
### Lightning talks

This is a preliminary list of the accepted submissions that are going to be presented in the lightning talk section:

* **Text mining for notability computation** <br/> Gil Francopoulo, Joseph Mariani and Patrick Paroubek
* **Linked Data and Text Mining as an Enabler for Reproducible Research**  <br/> John Philip McCrae, Georgeta Bordea and Paul Buitelaar
* **Emotion Detection using Online Machine Learning Method and TLBO on Mixed Script** <br/> Shashank Sharma, PYKL Srinivas and Rakesh Balabantaray
* **Alveo: making data accessible through a unified interface – a pipe-dream?** <br/> Dominique Estival
* **Tackling Resource Interoperability: Principles, Strategies and Models** <br/> Wim Peters
* **Integration of UIMA Text Mining Components into an Event-based Asynchronous Microservice Architecture** <br/> Sven Hodapp, Sumit Madan, Juliane Fluck and Marc Zimmermann 
* **The Language Application Grid** <br/> Nancy Ide, Keith Suderman, James Pustejovsky, Marc Verhagen, Christopher Cieri and Eric Nyberg 
* **Multilingual Event Detection using the NewsReader pipelines** <br/> Rodrigo Agerri, Itziar Aldabe, Egoitz Laparra, German Rigau, Antske Fokkens, Paul Huijgen, Marieke van Erp, Ruben Izquierdo Bevia, Piek Vossen, Anne-Lyse Minard and Bernardo Magnini 
* **Why We Need a Text and Data Mining Exception (but it is not enough)** <br/> Tom Margoni and Giulia Dore
* **Legal Interoperability Issues in the Framework of the OpenMinTeD Project: a Methodological Overview** <br/> Penny Labropoulou, Stelios Piperidis and Tom Margoni
* **Interoperability = f(community, division of labour)** <br/> Richard Eckart de Castilho
* **The DDINCBI Corpus — Towards a Larger Resource for Drug-Drug Interactions in PubMed** <br/> Lana Yeganova, Sun Kim, Grigory Balasanov, Kristin Bennett, Haibin Liu and W. John Wilbur 
* **Aggregating Research Papers from Publishers’ Systems to Support Text and Data Mining: Deliberate Lack of Interoperability or Not?** <br/> Petr Knoth and Nancy Pontika
* **Interoperability of corpus processing workflow engines: the case of AlvisNLP/ML in OpenMinTeD** <br/> Mouhamadou Ba and Robert Bossy
{% endcomment %}

Commit message:

No issue. Add note on license.

Program.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Program"
description: ""
group: navigation
---
{% include JB/setup %}

The publications provided on this page are part of the Language Resource and Evaluation Conference (LREC) proceedings that are published by the European Language Resources Association (ELRA). They are available online from the [conference website](http://www.lrec-conf.org/proceedings/lrec2016/workshops/LREC2016Workshop-INTEROP_Proceedings.pdf). The LREC 2016 Proceedings are licensed under CC-BY-NC, the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License.

For your convenience, we have split the original proceeings into one-file-per-submission and have created BibTeX the files linked below.

### Opening Session

09.00 -- 09.10
: Introduction

09.10 -- 10.00
: <img style="width: 15%; float: right; margin-left: 1em;" src="assets/fotoAle2.jpg"/>

<div style="width: 83%">
<b>Interoperability - Can a model driven approach help to overcome organizational constraints?</b><br/>Alessandro di Bari

<p><br/>Alessandro Di Bari is an IBM Executive/Senior Certified application architect.
He developed great experience in the application development field from both development process and application architecture point of view.
Starting from a deep involvement with modeling languages, he achieved significant results in the Model Driven Development (MDD) space, developing Domain Specific Languages for industries such as insurance. 
Since 2011, he works in the NLP/cognitive field, successfully applies his MDD skills in this field and also published several papers on this topic.
Since 2014, he works for the IBM Watson Cognitive Healthcare in the T.J. Watson research center in New York, USA.</p>
</div>

### Lightning talks part I

*5 minutes per talk, slides optional*

10.00 -- 10.30

: **Aggregating Research Papers from Publishers’ Systems to Support Text and Data Mining: Deliberate Lack of Interoperability or Not?**<br/> Petr Knoth and Nancy Pontika<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-1.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-1.bib)

: **Alveo: making data accessible through a unified interface – a pipe-dream?**<br/>Dominique Estival<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-2.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-2.bib)

: **The Language Application Grid**<br/>Nancy Ide, Keith Suderman, James Pustejovsky, Marc Verhagen, Christopher Cieri and Eric Nyberg<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-3.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-3.bib)

: **Interoperability of corpus processing work-flow engines: the case of AlvisNLP/ML in OpenMinTeD**<br/>Mouhamadou Ba and Robert Bossy<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-4.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-4.bib)

: **Integration of UIMA Text Mining Components into an Event-based Asynchronous Microservice Architecture**<br/>Sven Hodapp, Sumit Madan, Juliane Fluck and Marc Zimmermann<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-5.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-5.bib)

: **Interoperability = f(community, division of labour)**<br/>Richard Eckart de Castilho<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-6.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-6.bib)

10.30 -- 11.00
: Coffee break

### Lightning talks part II

*5 minutes per talk, slides optional*

11.00 -- 11.45

: **Linked Data and Text Mining as an Enabler for Reproducible Research**<br/>John P. McCrae, Georgeta Bordea and Paul Buitelaar<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-7.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-7.bib)

: **Tackling Resource Interoperability: Principles, Strategies and Models**<br/>Wim Peters<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-8.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-8.bib)

: **The DDINCBI Corpus — Towards a Larger Resource for Drug-Drug Interactions in PubMed**<br/>Lana Yeganova, Sun Kim, Grigory Balasanov, Kristin Bennett, Haibin Liu and W. John Wilbur<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-9.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-9.bib)

: **Multilingual Event Detection using the NewsReader pipelines**<br/>Rodrigo Agerri, Itziar Aldabe, Egoitz Laparra, German Rigau, Antske Fokkens, Paul Huijgen, Marieke van Erp, Ruben Izquierdo Bevia, Piek Vossen, Anne-Lyse Minard and Bernardo Magnini<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-10.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-10.bib)

: **Emotion Detection using Online Machine Learning Method and TLBO on Mixed Script**<br/>Shashank Sharma, PYKL Srinivas and Rakesh Balabantaray<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-11.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-11.bib)

: **Text mining for notability computation**<br/>Gil Francopoulo, Joseph Mariani and Patrick Paroubek<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-12.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-12.bib)

: **Why We Need a Text and Data Mining Exception (but it is not enough)**<br/>Thomas Margoni and Giulia Dore<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-13.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-13.bib)

: **Legal Interoperability Issues in the Framework of the OpenMinTeD Project: a Methodological Overview**<br/>Penny Labropoulou, Stelios Piperidis and Thomas Margoni<br/>[PDF](pdf/INTEROP-14.pdf) [BibTeX](pdf/INTEROP-14.bib)

: **eInfrastructures: crossing boundaries, discovering common work, achieving common goals**<br/>Hege van Dijke and Stelios Piperidis

### Discussion rounds I

11.45 -- 12.00
: Constitution of breakout groups

12.00 -- 13.00
: Breakout groups -- suggested topics<br/>{% include discussiontopics.md %}

13.00 -- 14.00
: Lunch break

### Discussion rounds II

14.00 -- 16.00
: Breakout groups -- continued

16.00 -- 16.30
: Coffee break

### Closing session

16.30 -- 18.00
: Presentation of the breakout groups results<br/>Plenary discussion

18.00
: End of workshop

### eInfrastructures: crossing boundaries, discovering common work, achieving common goals

Embedded in the INTEROP 2016 workshop, the *eInfrastructures* workshop is a sub-event realized as one of breakout groups of the main workshop.

*Moderators: Stelios Piperidis (Athena Research Centre), Hege van Dijke (LIBER Europe)*

The quantity and variety of digital research data of all types, the increasing number of solutions for mining such data to discover new knowledge, the variety of requirements of users of such data min-ing tools and services pose new challenges to the numerous infrastructural initiatives. When it comes to language data and processing, we experience multiple efforts towards generic or domain specific platforms for data aggregation and delivery, tools and services discovery, workflows or-chestration and execution. Common questions in these efforts consist in interoperability at different levels: metadata of language resources and annotations, data representations and vocabularies, ser-vices across platforms and frameworks, cloud computing infrastructures, access restrictions and permissions for certain operations. In this session, we bring together strategic players in order to discuss parallel efforts being undertaken and opportunities for long-term harmonisation and stra-tegic collaboration among existing (and future) e-Infrastructures in Europe, and the world at large, with a focus on, inter alia:

- What are the necessary strategies to enable crossing the boundaries of platforms, scientific domains, languages, national legislations?
- What can we learn from similar attempts so far?
- What can the research community do to promote these goals?
- What sort of alliances and policies are necessary to support overcoming the current barriers?


{% comment %}
### Lightning talks

This is a preliminary list of the accepted submissions that are going to be presented in the lightning talk section:

* **Text mining for notability computation** <br/> Gil Francopoulo, Joseph Mariani and Patrick Paroubek
* **Linked Data and Text Mining as an Enabler for Reproducible Research**  <br/> John Philip McCrae, Georgeta Bordea and Paul Buitelaar
* **Emotion Detection using Online Machine Learning Method and TLBO on Mixed Script** <br/> Shashank Sharma, PYKL Srinivas and Rakesh Balabantaray
* **Alveo: making data accessible through a unified interface – a pipe-dream?** <br/> Dominique Estival
* **Tackling Resource Interoperability: Principles, Strategies and Models** <br/> Wim Peters
* **Integration of UIMA Text Mining Components into an Event-based Asynchronous Microservice Architecture** <br/> Sven Hodapp, Sumit Madan, Juliane Fluck and Marc Zimmermann 
* **The Language Application Grid** <br/> Nancy Ide, Keith Suderman, James Pustejovsky, Marc Verhagen, Christopher Cieri and Eric Nyberg 
* **Multilingual Event Detection using the NewsReader pipelines** <br/> Rodrigo Agerri, Itziar Aldabe, Egoitz Laparra, German Rigau, Antske Fokkens, Paul Huijgen, Marieke van Erp, Ruben Izquierdo Bevia, Piek Vossen, Anne-Lyse Minard and Bernardo Magnini 
* **Why We Need a Text and Data Mining Exception (but it is not enough)** <br/> Tom Margoni and Giulia Dore
* **Legal Interoperability Issues in the Framework of the OpenMinTeD Project: a Methodological Overview** <br/> Penny Labropoulou, Stelios Piperidis and Tom Margoni
* **Interoperability = f(community, division of labour)** <br/> Richard Eckart de Castilho
* **The DDINCBI Corpus — Towards a Larger Resource for Drug-Drug Interactions in PubMed** <br/> Lana Yeganova, Sun Kim, Grigory Balasanov, Kristin Bennett, Haibin Liu and W. John Wilbur 
* **Aggregating Research Papers from Publishers’ Systems to Support Text and Data Mining: Deliberate Lack of Interoperability or Not?** <br/> Petr Knoth and Nancy Pontika
* **Interoperability of corpus processing workflow engines: the case of AlvisNLP/ML in OpenMinTeD** <br/> Mouhamadou Ba and Robert Bossy
{% endcomment %}
