Submission.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: "Submission"
description: ""
group: navigation
---
{% include JB/setup %}

### Submission

We invite submissions of extended abstracts/short papers describing recent
work, thoughts, or best practices on one or more of the topics of interest (up
to 4 pages). All submissions will be reviewed using a simple blind process by
at least three programm committee members and will be assessed based on their
relevance, potential to create constructive discussion, and clarity of
writing. The submissions must be formatted in compliance with the style sheet
that will be adopted for the LREC Proceedings (to be announced later on the
Conference web site).

Accepted papers will be presented at the workshop in the form of a 5 minute
lightning talk and included in the workshop proceedings. If there is an
unexpectedly high number of submissions, we may consider accepting some as
posters. 

### Authors Kit

The authors kit for the final submission will be linked on the [LREC 2016 final submission page](http://lrec2016.lrec-conf.org/en/submission/submit-your-final-paper/).

As long as the authors kit for LREC 2016 is not available, we suggest to use [the one from LREC 2014](http://lrec2014.lrec-conf.org/en/submission/authors-kit/) for your initial submission. For the camera ready version, the final LREC 2016 kit will be available.

### How to submit

Please submit through the [START conference tool](https://www.softconf.com/lrec2016/INTEROP/).

{% include format.md %}

{% include topics.md %}

Commit message:

Updated with link to LREC 2016 authors kit.

Submission.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Submission"
description: ""
group: navigation
---
{% include JB/setup %}

### Submission

We invite submissions of extended abstracts/short papers describing recent
work, thoughts, or best practices on one or more of the topics of interest (up
to 4 pages). All submissions will be reviewed using a simple blind process by
at least three programm committee members and will be assessed based on their
relevance, potential to create constructive discussion, and clarity of
writing. The submissions must be formatted in compliance with the style sheet
that will be adopted for the LREC Proceedings (to be announced later on the
Conference web site).

Accepted papers will be presented at the workshop in the form of a 5 minute
lightning talk and included in the workshop proceedings. If there is an
unexpectedly high number of submissions, we may consider accepting some as
posters. 

### Authors Kit

The final paper must follow the guidelines provided in the [Author’s Kit](http://lrec2016.lrec-conf.org/en/submission/authors-kit/) and it should be in pdf unprotected format.

### How to submit

Please submit through the [START conference tool](https://www.softconf.com/lrec2016/INTEROP/).

{% include format.md %}

{% include topics.md %}
